#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrbook
\begin_preamble
% enables calculations
\usepackage{calc}

% increases the bottom float placement fraction
\renewcommand{\bottomfraction}{0.5}
\end_preamble
\options intoc,bibliography=totoc,index=totoc,BCOR10mm,captions=tableheading,titlepage,fleqn
\use_default_options true
\master thesis.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman lmodern
\font_sans lmss
\font_typewriter lmtt
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Abstract"
\pdf_author "Your name"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered true
\pdf_bookmarksopen true
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 2
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle false
\pdf_quoted_options "pdfpagelayout=OneColumn, pdfnewwindow=true, pdfstartview=XYZ, plainpages=false"
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 2
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle plain
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter*
Abstract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\color green
1 Purpose and scope: Why do we care about the problem? What practical, scientifi
c, theoretical or artistic gap is your research filling?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This report describes the development of an exercise application called
 
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
app
\backslash

\end_layout

\end_inset

 for android smartphones.
 
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
app
\backslash

\end_layout

\end_inset

 combines the fascinating sensors found in the present smartphones with
 audio playback into an engaging game.
 Initially, a theoretical introduction to binural sound is presented, followed
 by a walk-through of the sensors as well as the design patterns that was
 followed when developing application.
 Furthermore the report describes the implementation process and the choices
 that were made when creating the application.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\color green
2 Result: As a result of completing the above procedure, what did you learn/inve
nt/create?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The project resulted in an application that has a appealing user interface
 and is a game that may enhance the users regular exercise sessions.
 This is done by providing a randomized running route, audio feedback to
 guide the user in the right direction as well as a providing challenge
 by urging the user to collect all the checkpoints along the route.
 
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
app
\backslash

\end_layout

\end_inset

 also presents the opportunity for the user to view the history of their
 previous running sessions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\color green
3 Conclusion/implications/ recommendations: What are the larger implications
 of your findings, especially for the problem/gap identified in step 1?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
TODO
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter*

\lang swedish
Sammanfattning
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\lang swedish
Svensk version
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
