#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrbook
\begin_preamble
% increases link area for cross-references and autoname them
\AtBeginDocument{\renewcommand{\ref}[1]{\mbox{\autoref{#1}}}}
\addto\extrasenglish{%
 \renewcommand*{\equationautorefname}[1]{}
 \renewcommand{\sectionautorefname}{sec.\negthinspace}
 \renewcommand{\subsectionautorefname}{sec.\negthinspace}
 \renewcommand{\subsubsectionautorefname}{sec.\negthinspace}
 \renewcommand{\figureautorefname}{Fig.\negthinspace}
 \renewcommand{\tableautorefname}{Tab.\negthinspace}
}

% in case somebody want to have the label "Equation"
%\renewcommand{\eqref}[1]{Equation~(\negthinspace\autoref{#1})}

% that links to image floats jumps to the beginning
% of the float and not to its caption
\usepackage[figure]{hypcap}

% the pages of the TOC is numbered roman
% and a pdf-bookmark for the TOC is added
\let\myTOC\tableofcontents
\renewcommand\tableofcontents{%
  \frontmatter
  \pdfbookmark[1]{\contentsname}{}
  \myTOC
  \mainmatter }

% makes caption labels bold
\setkomafont{captionlabel}{\bfseries}
\setcapindent{1em}

% enables calculations
\usepackage{calc}

% fancy page header/footer settings
\renewcommand{\chaptermark}[1]{\markboth{#1}{#1}}
\renewcommand{\sectionmark}[1]{\markright{\thesection\ #1}}

% increases the bottom float placement fraction
\renewcommand{\bottomfraction}{0.5}

% avoids that floats are placed above its sections
\let\mySection\section\renewcommand{\section}{\suppressfloats[t]\mySection}
\end_preamble
\options intoc,bibliography=totoc,index=totoc,BCOR10mm,captions=tableheading,titlepage,fleqn
\use_default_options true
\master ../TheoriticalFramework.lyx
\begin_modules
customHeadersFooters
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman lmodern
\font_sans lmss
\font_typewriter lmtt
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Your title"
\pdf_author "Your name"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered true
\pdf_bookmarksopen true
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle false
\pdf_quoted_options "pdfpagelayout=OneColumn, pdfnewwindow=true, pdfstartview=XYZ, plainpages=false"
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 2
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Left Header
\begin_inset Argument
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
chaptername
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset


\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
thechapter
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
rightmark
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Enable page headers and add the chapter to the header line.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Right Header
\begin_inset Argument
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
leftmark
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Left Footer
\begin_inset Argument
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
thepage
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Center Footer

\end_layout

\begin_layout Right Footer
\begin_inset Argument
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
thepage
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Sound
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The functionality and usability of the application are vastly depending
 on how the user perceives and interprets the audio coming from the device.
 If the user were to get confused by the audio, they would probably not
 be able to follow its instructions - and hence the whole purpose of the
 application would be ruined.
 It’s therefore vital to have an audio core that is easy to interpret and
 follow, and that behaves as expected.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Sound localization
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are several auditory cues for humans to determine where a sound source
 is located.
 Two of these cues are the interaural level difference (ILD) and the interaural
 time difference (ITD).
 ILD basically stands for the difference in volume between the closest ear
 and the ear being farthest from the sound.
 ITD, on the other hand, describes the time difference between the sound
 reaching each ear.
 Both are results of the head and torso shadowing the sound waves {KTH-SAKEN
 som källa}.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When the sound reaches the pinna, which is essential to many of the directional
 properties of our hearing, the incoming sound is being filtered even further.
 The pinna is located in the outer ear, together with the eardrum and ear
 canal, and is the visible part of the ear.
 As a result of the shadowing actions caused by the shape of the pinna -
 along with the directional characteristics of the torso and head - humans
 are able determine where a specific sound source is located.
 It even makes it possible for us to differentiate between sounds appearing
 from the front and back respectively (Kleiner, 2012).
 Its properties are of great value when synthesizing binaural sounds seeming
 to appear from a certain point in space, creating a surround environment
 using only two speakers.
 As Mendel Kleiner mentions in Acoustics and Audio Technology (2012), such
 binaural localization is very useful when simulating virtual realities
 (like in 3D games and architecture) - as with our application.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To generate virtual audio environments, one can use so called head-related
 transfer functions (HRTFs) (Simulation of virtual auditory space with HRTF,
 2004).
 They aim to describe how a sound input is filtered before reaching the
 eardrum - as a result of the reflection caused by the pinna, torso and
 head - and hence being perceived by us humans.
 Using only stereo headphones it’s therefore possible, with the help of
 HRTF, to create the illusion of a sound signal being heard in an anechoic
 chamber.
 That, however, assumes individualized HRTF measurements {HRTF-BOKEN}.
 Since the pinna is shaped differently on every person, the result might
 be more or less convincing depending on how well the measurements are made.
 Ways to capture data in the best way possible are currently being researched,
 as General information on SOFA (2014) suggests.
 SOFA is a common format to store spatial data measurements in.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
NÅGON BILD HÄR
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Human-Computer Interaction using sound
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
VÄLDIGT LÅNGT IFRÅN KLAR MED DETTA KAPITEL!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
People associate different sounds to different things.
 Hence, a sound can be positive to one person but negative to another.
 It’s therefore vital for the application’s sounds to not confuse the listeners
 by sending off a wrong signal.
 When the user is in moving towards the goal, for example, it makes sense
 for the sound to give off a positive vibe.
 If the user is moving in the wrong direction it should be clear that something
 is wrong.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The are several reasons to why using sounds to interact with the user is
 advantageous.
 First of all, it reduces the demands on visual attention (http://books.google.se/
books?id=npLEMUzgQ_0C&pg=PA224&lpg=PA224&dq=human+interaction+sound+effects&sour
ce=bl&ots=VGl8yPZlGx&sig=bBeF1gC0QIEgU2VtFZZ_m9eJI1U&hl=sv&sa=X&ei=aK5DU4DPOMTiy
wOl1oJQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=human%20interaction%20sound%20effects&f=false).
 An issue with today’s smartphones is that it’s hard to pay attention to
 a screen when being on the move.
 By giving information to the user through sound, the need to look at a
 screen would be eliminated and hence lets the user focus on their surroundings
 - a vital part when running.
 XXX also mentions that sound is attention grabbing.
 They explain this by saying that one can choose not to watch something,
 but it’s more difficult to choose not to hear something.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While using sounds enables the user to focus on its surroundings, it has
 its limitations.
 In XXX (1994), Kramer presented a few difficulties with using sound to
 interact with the user.
 According to him, one of the biggest problems is the low resolution - meaning
 that it’s hard for a user to perceive small differences in sounds, such
 as changes in sound volume and panoration.
 Another problem mentioned in the book is the annoyance that can arise because
 of the attention grabbing properties previously mentioned.
 If the user dislikes the sound being used it’s hard to ignore and will
 therefore bring annoyance.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
