#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrbook
\begin_preamble
% increases link area for cross-references and autoname them
\AtBeginDocument{\renewcommand{\ref}[1]{\mbox{\autoref{#1}}}}
\addto\extrasenglish{%
 \renewcommand*{\equationautorefname}[1]{}
 \renewcommand{\sectionautorefname}{sec.\negthinspace}
 \renewcommand{\subsectionautorefname}{sec.\negthinspace}
 \renewcommand{\subsubsectionautorefname}{sec.\negthinspace}
 \renewcommand{\figureautorefname}{Fig.\negthinspace}
 \renewcommand{\tableautorefname}{Tab.\negthinspace}
}

% in case somebody want to have the label "Equation"
%\renewcommand{\eqref}[1]{Equation~(\negthinspace\autoref{#1})}

% that links to image floats jumps to the beginning
% of the float and not to its caption
\usepackage[figure]{hypcap}

% the pages of the TOC is numbered roman
% and a pdf-bookmark for the TOC is added
\let\myTOC\tableofcontents
\renewcommand\tableofcontents{%
  \frontmatter
  \pdfbookmark[1]{\contentsname}{}
  \myTOC
  \mainmatter }

% makes caption labels bold
\setkomafont{captionlabel}{\bfseries}
\setcapindent{1em}

% enables calculations
\usepackage{calc}

% fancy page header/footer settings
\renewcommand{\chaptermark}[1]{\markboth{#1}{#1}}
\renewcommand{\sectionmark}[1]{\markright{\thesection\ #1}}

% increases the bottom float placement fraction
\renewcommand{\bottomfraction}{0.5}

% avoids that floats are placed above its sections
\let\mySection\section\renewcommand{\section}{\suppressfloats[t]\mySection}
\end_preamble
\options intoc,bibliography=totoc,index=totoc,BCOR10mm,captions=tableheading,titlepage,fleqn
\use_default_options true
\master ../chapter-2.lyx
\begin_modules
customHeadersFooters
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman lmodern
\font_sans lmss
\font_typewriter lmtt
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Your title"
\pdf_author "Your name"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered true
\pdf_bookmarksopen true
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle false
\pdf_quoted_options "pdfpagelayout=OneColumn, pdfnewwindow=true, pdfstartview=XYZ, plainpages=false"
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 2
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\branch NoChildDocument
\selected 0
\filename_suffix 0
\color #ff0000
\end_branch
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Left Header
\begin_inset Argument
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
chaptername
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset


\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
thechapter
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
rightmark
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Enable page headers and add the chapter to the header line.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Right Header
\begin_inset Argument
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
leftmark
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Left Footer
\begin_inset Argument
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
thepage
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Center Footer

\end_layout

\begin_layout Right Footer
\begin_inset Argument
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
thepage
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Random route generation algorithm
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To be able to quickly use the application when the user want to get out
 and run the sound sources (checkpoints) are generated out of a predefined
 algorithm.
 The checkpoints must be generated at reachable locations.
 It can for example not be placed in a lake or a building but instead on
 a road or trail.
 To accomplish this the application uses Google Maps and its routing features
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Akis03"

\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
First of all a random location is generated in a predefined distance from
 your location that is set by the GPS.
 The location can be generated in a circle around you with the radius equals
 to the distance, see figure random 1.
 d{http://gis.stackexchange.com/questions/25877/how-to-generate-random-locations-n
earby-my-location}.
 Förklara hur detta görs.
 To avoid that the location is generated to close to you it is instead generated
 within a range around the desired radius, see figure random 2.
 This is done by generate a location randomly around you within a circle
 of radius r.
 Then the bearing between you and the recently generated location is calculated.
 From the bearing the ratio between the cathetus is calculated and multiplied
 with the desired distance d.
 From this the distance of how much to add to the latitude and longitude
 is given and added to the current longitude and latitude.
 To make this randomly generated location reachable a request of directions
 from your current location to the new location is send to Google Maps.
 The answer from Google maps directions is a list of locations that you
 have to run by in order to reach the destination.
 It is a big chance that the generated location is not on the road but instead
 in the forest or in a lake.
 But by taking out the last location that is given by Google maps direction
 you find a location that is as close as possible to the generated location
 but it is reachable.
 This location is then set as a checkpoint.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To end up on the same location as you start when out are out running a routing
 algorithm was implemented.
 It creates a route based on the first generated random location.
 To create a route that not just go to one point and back the algorithm
 tries to make a route that is a circle of checkpoints and it end up on
 the same location as the user started on.
 This is done by first generating the a random location.
 This location is then mirrored over the geographic coordinate system but
 with the origo on the starting location of the user (Figure random 4).
 By taking the difference in the latitude, y, and longitude, x, between
 the users location and the newly generated location and adding/subtract
 them to the inverted axis (the difference in x direction is added to the
 y axis and the difference in y direction is added to the x axis) a mirrored
 location is achieved.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
